README.md, before:

## OSEI Senior Data Analyst Exercise
June 2024

### Intro
The included datasets come from two tables within the DSD relational database: Incarceration and Person. The incarceration table’s unit of analysis is one booking into the jail and includes booking-related data such as the times into and out of the jail. The person table’s unit of analysis is one person and includes demographic information like age and race. The “Person_id” column is the common variable between them. (For this exercise, the real Person_id has been suppressed and replaced with a unique random number to protect identities.) 

The point of this exercise is to demonstrate how you think analytically as much as it is to arrive at the “correct” answers. Please provide your best answers to the questions below, using the tools and methods you deem most effective. Please submit written answers in a clear and concise form by the deadline. **Please also share your code so we can review it.**

### Exercise
Consider the year from July 1, 2021 to June 30, 2022 as the analysis period. 

1. How many total bookings into the jail were there in that time period?
1. How many unique people were booked into the jail?
1. How many people were in the jail at the moment of the data extraction?
1. Consider the length of stay (LOS): the duration of each booking. Describe the LOS over the year analysis period. What insights (statistical and otherwise) does it provide you about variations in the jail population?
1. What was the average daily population in the jail during that year? Daily population ought to include anyone who spent even one minute in the jail in a given day. Please describe the methods/approach you used to answer this question. What tool did you use? What functions or other capabilities within the tool? (That is, help another analyst replicate what you did. Sharing code with your answers is encouraged but by no means required.)
1. Which day during that year had the lowest daily population? What was the population that day? Which day had the highest daily population? What was the population that day?
1. Please provide a basic analysis of jail demographics during that year period. Are there meaningful statistical relationships among the different groups in the jail?
1. What other insights, useful facts, or questions/concerns did you uncover, if any, in the data?

Commit message:

update readme file to include instructions for setting up the project space and added the first draft of the exercise.

README.md, after:

## Project Space Setup
1. If you have github, create a clone of the repo using R Studio.
1. In the cloned repository, add the following folder to the project: "01 - data"
1. Download and save the *Incarceration.xlsx* and *Person.xlsx* into the "01 - data" project folder.
1. In order to knit the R markdown file into a pdf, LaTex software must be installed. The easiest method to do this is by typing the following line of code in the console `install.packages(tinytex)`. After that line of code is executed, run `tinytex::install_tinytex()` in the console as well.

## OSEI Senior Data Analyst Exercise
June 2024

### Intro
The included datasets come from two tables within the DSD relational database: Incarceration and Person. The incarceration table’s unit of analysis is one booking into the jail and includes booking-related data such as the times into and out of the jail. The person table’s unit of analysis is one person and includes demographic information like age and race. The “Person_id” column is the common variable between them. (For this exercise, the real Person_id has been suppressed and replaced with a unique random number to protect identities.) 

The point of this exercise is to demonstrate how you think analytically as much as it is to arrive at the “correct” answers. Please provide your best answers to the questions below, using the tools and methods you deem most effective. Please submit written answers in a clear and concise form by the deadline. **Please also share your code so we can review it.**

### Exercise
Consider the year from July 1, 2021 to June 30, 2022 as the analysis period. 

1. How many total bookings into the jail were there in that time period?
1. How many unique people were booked into the jail?
1. How many people were in the jail at the moment of the data extraction?
1. Consider the length of stay (LOS): the duration of each booking. Describe the LOS over the year analysis period. What insights (statistical and otherwise) does it provide you about variations in the jail population?
1. What was the average daily population in the jail during that year? Daily population ought to include anyone who spent even one minute in the jail in a given day. Please describe the methods/approach you used to answer this question. What tool did you use? What functions or other capabilities within the tool? (That is, help another analyst replicate what you did. Sharing code with your answers is encouraged but by no means required.)
1. Which day during that year had the lowest daily population? What was the population that day? Which day had the highest daily population? What was the population that day?
1. Please provide a basic analysis of jail demographics during that year period. Are there meaningful statistical relationships among the different groups in the jail?
1. What other insights, useful facts, or questions/concerns did you uncover, if any, in the data?
